Purpose:
This web application is designed to help Toronto residents better understand what happens after they flush a toilet or drain water from their home. Using a simplified, map-based interface, the app shows the approximate path wastewater takes from any clicked location in the city to the correct wastewater treatment plant, and then through that plant’s outfall pipe to Lake Ontario.
All information used in the visualization comes from publicly available sources such as the City of Toronto’s Open Data Portal and published treatment plant reports.


The goal of this project is to educate people about how their daily activities interact with the city’s infrastructure and the surrounding environment. I thought of this idea because I did not know much about our wastewater infrastructure and many of my friends and family also had no idea that it goes into the Lake and that we get our tap water from that same Lake!


How to use:
1. Open the HTML file in your browser of choice
2. Read the background/context in the welcome modal that appears automatically.
3. Press Enter to close the intro
4. Hover over the city to select your desired starting point
5. Once selected, read the modal that confirms your selected location and the treatment plant that services that area
6. Press Enter to close the modal and begin the path
7. Adjust the camera height and speed via the provided sliders on the top-right of the page
8. Press Space at any time to skip the animation as the path can be quite long!
9. Once at the treatment plant, read the modal and press enter to continue to the final stage
10. Once the final outfall pipe has reached the water body, the final modal will appear that shows the estimated distance your wastewater traveled!
11. Refresh the page to start over


Enhancement ideas:
1. Add more educational content on each step in the wastewater treatment process.
2. Visualize real sewer pipe alignments where publicly available.
3. Add metrics like approximate travel time or energy used within the treatment process.
4. Improve the UI for the modals to make them more aesthetic
5. Expand to the nearby regions (eg Peel)